[MUSIC]
>> Jon: The network tab is pretty
straightforward compared to some of
the stuff that we've been doing.
So there's a lot going on on the screen.
The basic thing like I showed before, I'm
gonna go ahead and pop these out to full
screen just so we can see a little bit
better and them a do a page refresh.
So we've got some different things going
on here, we've got a little magnified view
of like what they call the network
waterfall like an asset loading and
then another one loading and
like you make this bigger.
You'll see these are like really
common patterns you'll see so
you'll see like one bar and
then a bunch of wires and
what's going on here is this one
buyer is your index out HTML.
And then, as soon as that gets
downloaded it gets parsed.
And as it gets parsed it's like index.html
is where you keep your scripts and
your links and your style sheets,
all that stuff.
So then it sends out and starts
fetching all these different requests.
With more robust apps you'll see
a way more complicated waterfall but
it's basically like each bar is
a file coming over the wire.
And where it starts is the millisecond
that that requests started right.
So it's like and how wide it is how long
it took to get down so that makes sense.
So wide bars take long to gum down
where they start across the X axis here
is the millisecond that they started.
And then,
the spacing is caused by like if you have
an mark up document that calls a style
sheet and then like that style sheet that
imports another style sheet like these
things are then dependent on each other.
They block on each other and
make this one smaller.
So then a different way of viewing
the same information is this list here.
So it start at the very top always with
the document, type document status.
There's a ton of information here like
you can see the size, how long it took.
So I tend to think, please stop me if I'm
getting confusing with this stuff cuz
there's like a lot to cover here.
So you start with a document, and then it,
this shows you like a very similar and
we're gonna cover this stuff in a minute
there's like all this information about
like not so
the bars with this how long it took but
there's more than that we want to
know why I things take longer.
They can take a long time for a ton of
different reasons like they're really
big the network was slow the server
is slow a bunch of different stuff.
And so, then you can kind of see in order.
You can start scrolling down here and
see every file that was called.
You can also see this initiator
tab which will show you
what file initiated the call for
this file.
So we have a bootstrap that CSS and
the initiator is debugging that HTML,
that makes sense, right?
Like they cause a CSS.
You can see their size.
All these are sortable.
So you can click on them.
The top or bottom sort.
Another nifty dimp tools trick that
I like, is you can hold a shift
over any item, and it will in
the green show you what called it,
and it will in orange or red to show you
what it called seeing it kind of like
it's the same as looking
at initiators basically but
it's kind of like a cool way that you
can like hold shift and look through.
I'm pretty zoomed in so
you can't see a ton of them but it's kinda
cool play around with cool and then.
So that does that make sense.
You kinda see in this waterfall
everything that loads down.
Cool.
So some other cool things here.
They allow the screenshots which I love.
This is back to the how important it is.
Performance and also into the how
complicated performance can be.
So I'm gonna refresh one more time
now recording screenshots with this
camera here.
And what you wanna look for
is basically with your app.
Let me see what's going on.
I think this one's just really fast.
Let's go to Twitter with
screenshots enabled.
So basically, what you wanna look,
got a breakpoint,
is what loads first like how stuff
is coming in, come on breakpoints,
get out of here.
>> Jon: I
think I still have this open
from one of my last examples.
Any XHR.
So basically what you're looking
at with these screenshots here is
as stuff comes in and starts loading,
what does the user get to see?
And this comes back into
this like complication of,
how your app is meant to be presented.
So sometimes you get yourself into
a situation like I said where you're
Blocked downloading Avatar
images that are like
a 1,000 pixels scroll
down from the viewport.
And because the way your markup is set up
you haven't even loaded the welcome text
yet things like that.
So you can use the screen shots to
get a really good idea as your page
this is before the restart, and
then we can see the restart happen and
then we can see like this
is a pretty good example.
So all the text comes in immediately and
then the images start coming in here and
they fade in.
So basically what this is doing is
that snapping a screenshot every time
the screen does a paint of any kind.
And you can get a really good
feel of like how stuff loads.
So this site looks pretty good, I've seen
a lot of sites before where it's just
the way the markup is, it's like white
with one image and it waits until
the whole image loads before it
even starts bringing in the menu or
anything like that, so this is just
like a case by case basis kinda thing.
You also can with this list,
this kind of big
list that we saw,
[SOUND] hide screenshots.
You can sort in a bunch of different ways.
So let's go back to my local host file and
so
what you can do with the sorting is you
can say I like only show me JavaScript and
it will just say the JavaScript files are
like only show me CSS something like that,
that's really helpful and
you can think it's Cmd click,
or I guess Ctrl on Windows Linux
to sort by multiple things.
So you can be like only
show me JavaScript and CSS.
You can also filter if you got
a bunch of different files.
So you could look for, I don't know, main,
or you can do some actually
regular expressions in here,
too but I'm not gonna get into that now.
>> Speaker 2: Can you touch on what
the different colors are in the bars?
>> Jon: Yeah,
that's definitely my next subject, cool.
So I think that's the stuff
I wanted to cover.
I wanted to talk real quick too about this
disable cash making sure you always have
this otherwise you're going to get
bad information because you've got
cash files so you won't get a very good
picture of how your apps loading and
then there's like these
two different views.
So you can hide one or hide the other
if you want just for viewing it.
So let's get into the colors
cuz they're really important.